“হ্যাঁ,আমি তাই। এ ছাড়াও আমি একজন খ্রিস্টান,একজন মুসলিম,একজন বৌদ্ধ এবং একজন ইহুদি।”
“আমার জীবনের অভিজ্ঞতায় উপলব্ধি করতে পেরেছি যে একমাত্র সততা ও ভালোবাসা দ্বারা পৃথিবীকে জয় করা যায়”
“এমনভাবে অধ্যায়ন করবে,যেন তোমার সময়াভাব নেই,তুমি চিরজীবী। এমনভাবে জীবনযাত্রা নির্বাহ করবে,যেন মনে হয় তুমি আগামীকালই মারা যাবে।”
“দৃঢ় প্রতিজ্ঞা করুন,কারন আমাদের প্রতিজ্ঞা এক সময় আচরনে পরিণত হয়”
“পরিচ্ছন্ন বই পড়া ভাল,কিন্তু মহান সাহিত্যের পঠিত বিষয় জীবনে বুনন করা উত্তম”
“ভাল অভ্যাস করুন,কারন আমাদের অভ্যাস এক সময় মর্যাদায় পরিণত হয়”
“মর্যাদা ধরে রাখুন,কারন এই মর্যাদা এক সময় আমাদের লক্ষ্যে পৌঁছে দেয়”
যেখানে ভালোবাসা আছে,সেখানে জীবন আছে।
আমার জীবন’ই আমার বার্তা।
দুর্বলরা কখনও ক্ষমা করতে পারে না। ক্ষমা হচ্ছে শক্তিমানদের গুন।
মানবতার উপর কখনও আস্থা হারাবে না। মানবতা হচ্ছে মহাসমুদ্রের মত,যার কয়েক ফোটা ময়লা হলেও কখনো সম্পূর্ণ ময়লা হয় না।
নিজেকে খুঁজে পাওয়ার সবচেয়ে উত্তম উপায় হচ্ছে অন্যের মঙ্গলে নিজেকে উৎসর্গ করা।
সোনা কিংবা রূপার টুকরো নয়,স্বাস্থ্যই হলো প্রকৃত সম্পদ।
ক্ষমতা দুই প্রকার;একটি অর্জন করা হয় শাস্তির ভয় দেখিয়ে আর অন্যটি অর্জন করা হয় ভালোবাসা দিয়ে। ভালোবাসা দিয়ে অর্জিত ক্ষমতা ভয় দেখিয়ে অর্জিত ক্ষমতার চেয়ে হাজার গুন বেশী কার্যকরী এবং স্থায়ী।
তুমি যা ভাবো,যা বলো এবং যা করো তার মেলবন্ধনই হলো সুখ।
পৃথিবীতে তুমি যে পরিবর্তন দেখতে চাও তা নিজ থেকেই শুরু করো।
যখন আমি সূর্যোদয় কিংবা চাঁদের আলোর প্রশংসা করি,তখন আমার আত্মা সৃষ্টিকর্তার পূজা করে।
Prayer is the key of the morning and the bolt of the evening.
First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win.
The best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others.
A nation's culture resides in the hearts and in the soul of its people.
Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.
When I admire the wonders of a sunset or the beauty of the moon, my soul expands in the worship of the creator.
Peace is its own reward.
The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.
You must be the change you wish to see in the world.
In prayer it is better to have a heart without words than words without a heart.
Satisfaction lies in the effort, not in the attainment, full effort is full victory.
An eye for an eye only ends up making the whole world blind.
Happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.
Anger and intolerance are the enemies of correct understanding.
Action expresses priorities.
A man is but the product of his thoughts what he thinks, he becomes.
Prayer is not asking. It is a longing of the soul. It is daily admission of one's weakness. It is better in prayer to have a heart without words than words without a heart.
The greatness of a nation can be judged by the way its animals are treated.
The essence of all religions is one. Only their approaches are different.
It is health that is real wealth and not pieces of gold and silver.
Strength does not come from physical capacity. It comes from an indomitable will.
Morality is the basis of things and truth is the substance of all morality.
In a gentle way, you can shake the world.
You must not lose faith in humanity. Humanity is an ocean; if a few drops of the ocean are dirty, the ocean does not become dirty.
It may be possible to gild pure gold, but who can make his mother more beautiful?
There is a sufficiency in the world for man's need but not for man's greed.
Non-violence is the greatest force at the disposal of mankind. It is mightier than the mightiest weapon of destruction devised by the ingenuity of man.
All compromise is based on give and take, but there can be no give and take on fundamentals. Any compromise on mere fundamentals is a surrender. For it is all give and no take.
Nobody can hurt me without my permission.
Man becomes great exactly in the degree in which he works for the welfare of his fellow-men.
Non-violence and truth are inseparable and presuppose one another.
Where there is love there is life.
Poverty is the worst form of violence.
There is more to life than increasing its speed.
Even if you are a minority of one, the truth is the truth.
An ounce of practice is worth more than tons of preaching.
A coward is incapable of exhibiting love; it is the prerogative of the brave.
Anger is the enemy of non-violence and pride is a monster that swallows it up.
The good man is the friend of all living things.
I suppose leadership at one time meant muscles; but today it means getting along with people.
Non-violence is not a garment to be put on and off at will. Its seat is in the heart, and it must be an inseparable part of our being.
We may never be strong enough to be entirely nonviolent in thought, word and deed. But we must keep nonviolence as our goal and make strong progress towards it.
The real ornament of woman is her character, her purity.
Self-respect knows no considerations.
It is the quality of our work which will please God and not the quantity.
If I had no sense of humor, I would long ago have committed suicide.
If patience is worth anything, it must endure to the end of time. And a living faith will last in the midst of the blackest storm.
There is a higher court than courts of justice and that is the court of conscience. It supercedes all other courts. Mahatma Gandhi
We may stumble and fall but shall rise again; it should be enough if we did not run away from the battle. Mahatma Gandhi
A 'No' uttered from the deepest conviction is better than a 'Yes' merely uttered to please, or worse, to avoid trouble.
Gentleness, self-sacrifice and generosity are the exclusive possession of no one race or religion.
My life is my message.
Honest disagreement is often a good sign of progress.
Non-cooperation with evil is as much a duty as is cooperation with good.
You can chain me, you can torture me, you can even destroy this body, but you will never imprison my mind. Mahatma Gandhi
To believe in something, and not to live it, is dishonest.
Let us all be brave enough to die the death of a martyr, but let no one lust for martyrdom.
My religion is based on truth and non-violence. Truth is my God. Non-violence is the means of realising Him. Mahatma Gandhi
Those who know how to think need no teachers.
Power is of two kinds. One is obtained by the fear of punishment and the other by acts of love. Power based on love is a thousand times more effective and permanent then the one derived from fear of punishment.
Service which is rendered without joy helps neither the servant nor the served. But all other pleasures and possessions pale into nothingness before service which is rendered in a spirit of joy.
Intolerance is itself a form of violence and an obstacle to the growth of a true democratic spirit.
Non-violence is the article of faith.
Fear has its use but cowardice has none.
Man's nature is not essentially evil. Brute nature has been known to yield to the influence of love. You must never despair of human nature.
I claim to be a simple individual liable to err like any other fellow mortal. I own, however, that I have humility enough in me to confess my errors and to retrace my steps.
Infinite striving to be the best is man's duty; it is its own reward. Everything else is in God's hands.
No culture can live if it attempts to be exclusive.
The moment there is suspicion about a person's motives, everything he does becomes tainted.
Truth stands, even if there be no public support. It is self-sustained.
We win justice quickest by rendering justice to the other party.
As human beings, our greatness lies not so much in being able to remake the world - that is the myth of the atomic age - as in being able to remake ourselves.
A man who was completely innocent, offered himself as a sacrifice for the good of others, including his enemies, and became the ransom of the world. It was a perfect act.
Non-violence requires a double faith, faith in God and also faith in man.
In matters of conscience, the law of the majority has no place.
It is easy enough to be friendly to one's friends. But to befriend the one who regards himself as your enemy is the quintessence of true religion. The other is mere business.
An unjust law is itself a species of violence. Arrest for its breach is more so.
The human voice can never reach the distance that is covered by the still small voice of conscience.
I have nothing new to teach the world. Truth and Non-violence are as old as the hills. All I have done is to try experiments in both on as vast a scale as I could.
A small body of determined spirits fired by an unquenchable faith in their mission can alter the course of history. Mahatma Gandhi
The difference between what we do and what we are capable of doing would suffice to solve most of the world's problems.
What do I think of Western civilization? I think it would be a very good idea.
I look only to the good qualities of men. Not being faultless myself, I won't presume to probe into the faults of others.
I am prepared to die, but there is no cause for which I am prepared to kill.