“একজন খ্রিস্টান হিসেবে প্রতারিত হওয়া আমার কর্তব্য নয়, কর্তব্য হলো সত্য এবং ন্যায়ের জন্য যুদ্ধ করা”
“যে ব্যাক্তি আকাশকে সবুজ দেখে এবং জমিনকে আঁকে নীল রঙে তাকে নপংসুক করে দেয়া কর্তব্য”
“যে যুবক ভবিষ্যৎকে জয় করে,সে হয় একা”
“কে বলেছে আমি ঈশ্বরের দ্বারা সুরক্ষিত নই”
“শক্তি প্রতিরোধে নয়,আক্রমণেই প্রকাশিত হয়”
“জার্মানি হবে পৃথিবীর সর্বশক্তিমান নয়তো কিছুই নয়”
“যে ব্যাক্তি আকাশকে সবুজ দেখে এবং জমিনকে আঁকে নীল রঙে তাকে নপংসুক করে দেয়া কর্তব্য”
The leader of genius must have the ability to make different opponents appear as if they belonged to one category.
How fortunate for governments that the people they administer don't think.
Strength lies not in defense but in attack.
The great masses of the people will more easily fall victims to a big lie than to a small one.
Words build bridges into unexplored regions.
The great strength of the totalitarian state is that it forces those who fear it to imitate it.
Universal education is the most corroding and disintegrating poison that liberalism has ever invented for its own destruction.
The broad masses of a population are more amenable to the appeal of rhetoric than to any other force.
Success is the sole earthly judge of right and wrong.
The victor will never be asked if he told the truth.
Anyone who sees and paints a sky green and fields blue ought to be sterilized.
Generals think war should be waged like the tourneys of the Middle Ages. I have no use for knights; I need revolutionaries.
Who says I am not under the special protection of God?
What good fortune for governments that the people do not think.
The day of individual happiness has passed.
It is not truth that matters, but victory.
He alone, who owns the youth, gains the future.
The art of leadership... consists in consolidating the attention of the people against a single adversary and taking care that nothing will split up that attention.
Hate is more lasting than dislike.
Great liars are also great magicians.
I use emotion for the many and reserve reason for the few.
I do not see why man should not be just as cruel as nature.
Humanitarianism is the expression of stupidity and cowardice.
It is always more difficult to fight against faith than against knowledge.
If you tell a big enough lie and tell it frequently enough, it will be believed.
Any alliance whose purpose is not the intention to wage war is senseless and useless.
I believe today that my conduct is in accordance with the will of the Almighty Creator.
Sooner will a camel pass through a needle's eye than a great man be 'discovered' by an election.
The very first essential for success is a perpetually constant and regular employment of violence.
Demoralize the enemy from within by surprise, terror, sabotage, assassination. This is the war of the future. Adolf Hitler
As a Christian I have no duty to allow myself to be cheated, but I have the duty to be a fighter for truth and justice.
Those who want to live, let them fight, and those who do not want to fight in this world of eternal struggle do not deserve to live.
All propaganda has to be popular and has to accommodate itself to the comprehension of the least intelligent of those whom it seeks to reach.
By the skillful and sustained use of propaganda, one can make a people see even heaven as hell or an extremely wretched life as paradise.
If today I stand here as a revolutionary, it is as a revolutionary against the Revolution.
Whoever lights the torch of war in Europe can wish for nothing but chaos.
I go the way that Providence dictates with the assurance of a sleepwalker.
Mankind has grown strong in eternal struggles and it will only perish through eternal peace.
As soon as by one's own propaganda even a glimpse of right on the other side is admitted, the cause for doubting one's own right is laid.
Germany will either be a world power or will not be at all.
The doom of a nation can be averted only by a storm of flowing passion, but only those who are passionate themselves can arouse passion in others.
Through clever and constant application of propaganda, people can be made to see paradise as hell, and also the other way round, to consider the most wretched sort of life as paradise.
Struggle is the father of all things. It is not by the principles of humanity that man lives or is able to preserve himself above the animal world, but solely by means of the most brutal struggle.