আমি প্রতিদিনই আমাকে যে প্রশ্নটি করি তা হল,আমি কি সবথেকে গুরুত্বপূর্ণ কাজটি করছি যা আমি করতে পারতাম? আমি যদি মনে না করি যে আমি সবথেকে গুরুত্বপূর্ণ কাজটি করছি,তাহলে সময় কাটানোটা আমার কাছে মূল্যহীন মনে হয়।
দ্রুত পরিবর্তনশীল বিশ্বে ব্যর্থ হওয়ার একটি মাত্র উপায় আছে আর তা হল ঝুঁকি না নেওয়া।
আমরা মানুষের সম্পর্কে কী জানতে চাই,সেটি প্রশ্ন না। প্রশ্ন হল মানুষ তাদের সম্পর্কে কতটুকু জানাতে চায়।
এটা খুবই বিকৃত চিন্তাভাবনা,কিন্তু এর মধ্য দিয়ে আমাকেও যেতে হয়েছে যেখানে মানুষ আমার কাজকে ছোট করে দেখত। তবে এর ফলে আমরা আরও বড় পরিসরে কাজ করে মানুষকে অবাক করে দেয়ার মতো উদ্যম পাই।
আমি আমার ডর্ম রুমে ফেসবুকের কোড লিখেছি এবং সেখান থেকেই ফেসবুক চালু করেছি। প্রতি মাসে ৮৫ ডলারের বিনিময়ে আমি সার্ভার ভাড়া করেছিলাম,এই টাকা জোগাতে আমি সাইটে একটি বিজ্ঞাপন দিয়েছিলাম। আর এখন পর্যন্ত বিজ্ঞাপন দিয়েই আমরা আমাদের খরচ যোগাচ্ছি।
আপনার সামনে একটি কাঠবিড়ালি মারা যাচ্ছে,এটি আপনার কাছে বেশি গুরুত্বপূর্ণ মনে হচ্ছে যেখানে আফ্রিকায় প্রতিনিয়তই মরছে মানুষ
দ্রুত কাজ করে অন্যকে অতিক্রম করুন। আপনি যদি সেটি না পারেন,তাহলে বুঝতে হবে আপনি খুব দ্রুত কাজ করতে পারছেন না।
কেউ কেউ খুব স্মার্ট কিংবা দক্ষ হতে পারে,কিন্তু তারা যদি তাতে বিশ্বাস না রাখে,তাহলে তারা কঠোর পরিশ্রমে আগ্রহী হয় না
আপনার সম্পর্কে একটা ম্যুভিতে কি বলা হল কিংবা আপনি কী বলছেন,তাতে অন্যরা খুব একটা গুরুত্ব দিবে না। আপনি কী করেছেন,সবাই সেটি দেখতে চায়।
সিলিকন ভ্যালীতে সবার মধ্যে একটা মনোভাব কাজ করে যে আমাকে এখানে কিছু একটা করতেই হবে। কিন্তু কিছু করার জন্য এটাই একমাত্র জায়গা নয়। আমি যদি এখন শুরু করতাম,তাহলে আমি বোস্টনকে বেছে নিতাম। সিলিকন ভ্যালী ব্যাপারটা কেমন যেন সংকীর্ণ মনে হয় আমার কাছে যা সত্যিই বিরক্তিকর।
The biggest risk is not taking any risk... In a world that changing really quickly, the only strategy that is guaranteed to fail is not taking risks.
Think about what people are doing on Facebook today. They're keeping up with their friends and family, but they're also building an image and identity for themselves, which in a sense is their brand. They're connecting with the audience that they want to connect to. It's almost a disadvantage if you're not on it now.
By giving people the power to share, we're making the world more transparent.
Figuring out what the next big trend is tells us what we should focus on.
Facebook was not originally created to be a company. It was built to accomplish a social mission - to make the world more open and connected.
I wear the same outfit or, at least, a different copy of it almost every day.
Move fast with stable infrastructure.
Facebook is in a very different place than Apple, Google, Amazon, Samsung, and Microsoft. We are trying to build a community.
I feel that the best companies are started not because the founder wanted a company but because the founder wanted to change the world... If you decide you want to found a company, you maybe start to develop your first idea. And hire lots of workers.
I wear the same outfit or, at least, a different copy of it almost every day.
Founding a company is hard. Most of it isn't smooth. You'll have to make very hard decisions. You have to fire a few people. Therefore, if you don't believe in your mission, giving up is easy. The majority of founders give up. But the best founders don't give up.
What really motivates people at Facebook is building stuff that they're proud of.
My goal was never to make Facebook cool. I am not a cool person.
I think a simple rule of business is, if you do the things that are easier first, then you can actually make a lot of progress.
Video is growing very quickly on Facebook. A lot of people compare that to YouTube. I think that kind of makes sense. YouTube isn't the only video service, but I think it's the biggest, and it probably makes more sense to compare Facebook video to YouTube rather than Netflix because that's a completely different kind of content. Mark Zuckerberg
The question isn't, 'What do we want to know about people?', It's, 'What do people want to tell about themselves?'
Advertising works most effectively when it's in line with what people are already trying to do. And people are trying to communicate in a certain way on Facebook - they share information with their friends, they learn about what their friends are doing - so there's really a whole new opportunity for a new type of advertising model within that.
There is a huge need and a huge opportunity to get everyone in the world connected, to give everyone a voice and to help transform society for the future. The scale of the technology and infrastructure that must be built is unprecedented, and we believe this is the most important problem we can focus on.
When you give everyone a voice and give people power, the system usually ends up in a really good place. So, what we view our role as, is giving people that power.
I look at Google and think they have a strong academic culture. Elegant solutions to complex problems.
If we're trying to build a world-class News Feed and a world-class messaging product and a world-class search product and a world-class ad system, and invent virtual reality and build drones, I can't write every line of code. I can't write any lines of code.
When I started Facebook from my dorm room in 2004, the idea that my roommates and I talked about all the time was a world that was more open.
Our goal is to make it so there's as little friction as possible to having a social experience.
We're at a point now where we've built AI tools to detect when terrorists are trying to spread content, and 99 percent of the terrorist content that we take down, our systems flag before any human sees them or flags them for us.
We talk about this concept of openness and transparency as the high-level ideal that we're moving towards at Facebook. The way that we get there is by empowering people to share and connect. The combination of those two things leads the world to become more open.
A squirrel dying in front of your house may be more relevant to your interests right now than people dying in Africa.
Right now, with social networks and other tools on the Internet, all of these 500 million people have a way to say what they're thinking and have their voice be heard.
Facebook is really about communicating and telling stories... We think that people can really help spread awareness of organ donation and that they want to participate in this to their friends. And that can be a big part of helping solve the crisis that's out there.
I feel like the thing we can do is celebrate people doing great work and create more cultural momentum and awareness that this is an important thing in the world. So when the next economic crisis hits and people are talking about where to cut from the budget, science isn't the thing.
When people are connected, we can just do some great things. They have the opportunity to get access to jobs, education, health, communications. We have the opportunity to bring the people we care about closer to us. It really makes a big difference.
While some doubted that connecting the world was actually important, we were building. While others doubted that this would be sustainable, you were forming lasting connections. We just cared more about connecting the world than anyone else. And we still do today.
I think a lot of the time there isn't such a black-and-white difference between what's a platform and what's an app. It's really just like the most important apps become platforms.
There are good examples of companies - Coca-Cola is one - that invested before there was a huge market in countries, and I think that ended up playing out to their benefit for decades to come.
All of my friends who have younger siblings who are going to college or high school - my number one piece of advice is: You should learn how to program.
There are different ways to do innovation. You can plant a lot of seeds, not be committed to any particular one of them, but just see what grows. And this really isn't how we've approached this. We go mission-first, then focus on the pieces we need and go deep on them and be committed to them.
I do everything on my phone as a lot of people do.
I spend a lot of time just, you know, with my girlfriend and my dog. And I mean, we don't have a lot of furniture in our house, so it's really simple. And we're trying to build products for everyone in the world, right. And you don't want to get isolated to do that.
Working with a lot of people at the same time is a task. I really like making stuff and getting stuff done. One of the things I really liked about Facebook was that I could always move so quickly. I wrote the original application in, like, nine days at the end of January.
We pay attention to every demographic in every country, so we're going to focus on building things that teens are going to like, and we're also going to focus on building things that other folks are going to like.
I think that people just have this core desire to express who they are. And I think that's always existed.
I updated my grilling app, I Grill, today and it now has Facebook integration that lets you see what other people are grilling right now around the world. Awesome.
If you look at the history of our country over the last 100 years, there have been periods where science and research have been celebrated. They were really kind of held up as heroes in society, which encouraged a generation of people to go into these fields.
I literally coded Facebook in my dorm room and launched it from my dorm room. I rented a server for $85 a month, and I funded it by putting an ad on the side, and we've funded ever since by putting ads on the side. Mark Zuckerberg
I do think that we're gonna move towards this world where eventually you'll be able to capture a whole experience that you're in and be able to send that to someone.
I always tell people that you should only hire people to be on your team if you would work for them.
Bill Gates has always been a mentor and inspiration for me even before I knew him. Just growing up, I admired how Microsoft was mission-focused.
I just think that VR and AR are going to be a really big deal.
I care about helping to address these problems of social cohesion and understanding what economic problems people think exist.
Frankly, I think that the news industry is critically important because it points out things and surfaces truths that can often be uncomfortable. I think that that's working, and the spotlight has been pointed on things that we have a responsibility to do better, and I accept that.
I actually think people generally have an awareness and feel like, 'Wow, these networks have a lot of information.'
Connectivity is a human right.