দুর্ভাগ্যবান তারাই যাদের প্রকৃত বন্ধু নেই।
জেগে স্বপ্ন দেখাই হচ্ছে আশা।
সন্তুষ্টি ব্যাপারটা আমাদের নিজেদের উপরই নির্ভর করে।
এমন কোন প্রতিভাবান নেই যাকে পাগলামি একটুও স্পর্শ করেনি।
কাজের মধ্যে আত্মতৃপ্তি কাজের মধ্যে পরিপূর্ণতা আনে।
শিক্ষার মূল তেঁতো হলেও ফল ভীষণ মিষ্টি।
দুটি পৃথক শরীরে বসবাসকারী এক আত্মার নামই হলো ভালোবাসা।
তরুণ বয়সে অর্জিত ভালো অভ্যাসই ভিন্নটা এনে দেয়।
শান্তিতে বসবাস করার জন্যেই আমরা যুদ্ধে লিপ্ত হই।
বৃদ্ধ বয়সের শেষ রুযীই হলো শিক্ষা।
It is during our darkest moments that we must focus to see the light.
Quality is not an act, it is a habit.
The roots of education are bitter, but the fruit is sweet.
Pleasure in the job puts perfection in the work.
At his best, man is the noblest of all animals; separated from law and justice he is the worst.
The worst form of inequality is to try to make unequal things equal.
It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought without accepting it.
There is no great genius without some touch of madness.
Anybody can become angry - that is easy, but to be angry with the right person and to the right degree and at the right time and for the right purpose, and in the right way - that is not within everybody's power and is not easy.
Education is an ornament in prosperity and a refuge in adversity.
The aim of the wise is not to secure pleasure, but to avoid pain.
Democracy is when the indigent, and not the men of property, are the rulers.
Wishing to be friends is quick work, but friendship is a slow ripening fruit.
Whosoever is delighted in solitude is either a wild beast or a god.
My best friend is the man who in wishing me well wishes it for my sake.
Good habits formed at youth make all the difference.
Some animals are cunning and evil-disposed, as the fox; others, as the dog, are fierce, friendly, and fawning. Some are gentle and easily tamed, as the elephant; some are susceptible of shame, and watchful, as the goose. Some are jealous and fond of ornament, as the peacock.
Dignity does not consist in possessing honors, but in deserving them.
Republics decline into democracies and democracies degenerate into despotisms.
The energy of the mind is the essence of life.
The end of labor is to gain leisure.
The one exclusive sign of thorough knowledge is the power of teaching.
The educated differ from the uneducated as much as the living from the dead.
The aim of art is to represent not the outward appearance of things, but their inward significance.
The secret to humor is surprise.
The ideal man bears the accidents of life with dignity and grace, making the best of circumstances.
Moral excellence comes about as a result of habit. We become just by doing just acts, temperate by doing temperate acts, brave by doing brave acts.
There was never a genius without a tincture of madness.
Character may almost be called the most effective means of persuasion.
Man is by nature a political animal.
Love is composed of a single soul inhabiting two bodies.
Courage is the first of human qualities because it is the quality which guarantees the others.
Friendship is essentially a partnership.
Hope is a waking dream.
A friend to all is a friend to none.
Change in all things is sweet.
No excellent soul is exempt from a mixture of madness.
Some kinds of animals burrow in the ground; others do not. Some animals are nocturnal, as the owl and the bat; others use the hours of daylight. There are tame animals and wild animals. Man and the mule are always tame; the leopard and the wolf are invariably wild, and others, as the elephant, are easily tamed.
I count him braver who overcomes his desires than him who conquers his enemies; for the hardest victory is over self.
Rhetoric may be defined as the faculty of observing in any given case the available means of persuasion. This is not a function of any other art.
Wit is educated insolence.
Men acquire a particular quality by constantly acting in a particular way.
Persuasion is achieved by the speaker's personal character when the speech is so spoken as to make us think him credible. We believe good men more fully and more readily than others: this is true generally whatever the question is, and absolutely true where exact certainty is impossible and opinions are divided.
What it lies in our power to do, it lies in our power not to do.
Probable impossibilities are to be preferred to improbable possibilities.
He who hath many friends hath none.
Personal beauty is a greater recommendation than any letter of reference.
If one way be better than another, that you may be sure is nature's way.
To run away from trouble is a form of cowardice and, while it is true that the suicide braves death, he does it not for some noble object but to escape some ill.
Democracy arises out of the notion that those who are equal in any respect are equal in all respects; because men are equally free, they claim to be absolutely equal.
The whole is more than the sum of its parts.
Well begun is half done.
The greatest virtues are those which are most useful to other persons.
Jealousy is both reasonable and belongs to reasonable men, while envy is base and belongs to the base, for the one makes himself get good things by jealousy, while the other does not allow his neighbor to have them through envy.
The duty of rhetoric is to deal with such matters as we deliberate upon without arts or systems to guide us, in the hearing of persons who cannot take in at a glance a complicated argument or follow a long chain of reasoning.
The least initial deviation from the truth is multiplied later a thousand fold.
He who is unable to live in society, or who has no need because he is sufficient for himself, must be either a beast or a god.
In making a speech one must study three points: first, the means of producing persuasion; second, the language; third the proper arrangement of the various parts of the speech.
Youth is easily deceived because it is quick to hope.
Those who educate children well are more to be honored than they who produce them; for these only gave them life, those the art of living well.
In a democracy the poor will have more power than the rich, because there are more of them, and the will of the majority is supreme.
A statement is persuasive and credible either because it is directly self-evident or because it appears to be proved from other statements that are so.
Fear is pain arising from the anticipation of evil.
He who is to be a good ruler must have first been ruled.
A tragedy is a representation of an action that is whole and complete and of a certain magnitude. A whole is what has a beginning and middle and end.
A tyrant must put on the appearance of uncommon devotion to religion. Subjects are less apprehensive of illegal treatment from a ruler whom they consider god-fearing and pious. On the other hand, they do less easily move against him, believing that he has the gods on his side. Aristotle
In all things of nature there is something of the marvelous.
It is just that we should be grateful, not only to those with whose views we may agree, but also to those who have expressed more superficial views; for these also contributed something, by developing before us the powers of thought.
The soul never thinks without a picture.
We make war that we may live in peace.
Bad men are full of repentance.
Politicians also have no leisure, because they are always aiming at something beyond political life itself, power and glory, or happiness.
Bashfulness is an ornament to youth, but a reproach to old age.
Man is the only animal capable of reasoning, though many others possess the faculty of memory and instruction in common with him.
In constructing the plot and working it out with the proper diction, the poet should place the scene, as far as possible, before his eyes. In this way, seeing everything with the utmost vividness, as if he were a spectator of the action, he will discover what is in keeping with it, and be most unlikely to overlook inconsistencies.
Plato is dear to me, but dearer still is truth.
Temperance is a mean with regard to pleasures.
Without friends no one would choose to live, though he had all other goods.
Piety requires us to honor truth above our friends.
We become just by performing just action, temperate by performing temperate actions, brave by performing brave action.
The eyes of some persons are large, others small, and others of a moderate size; the last-mentioned are the best. And some eyes are projecting, some deep-set, and some moderate, and those which are deep-set have the most acute vision in all animals; the middle position is a sign of the best disposition.
Excellence, then, is a state concerned with choice, lying in a mean, relative to us, this being determined by reason and in the way in which the man of practical wisdom would determine it. Aristotle
The moral virtues, then, are produced in us neither by nature nor against nature. Nature, indeed, prepares in us the ground for their reception, but their complete formation is the product of habit. Aristotle
Whether if soul did not exist time would exist or not, is a question that may fairly be asked; for if there cannot be someone to count there cannot be anything that can be counted, so that evidently there cannot be number; for number is either what has been, or what can be, counted. Aristotle
He who can be, and therefore is, another's, and he who participates in reason enough to apprehend, but not to have, is a slave by nature.
The virtue of justice consists in moderation, as regulated by wisdom.
We must no more ask whether the soul and body are one than ask whether the wax and the figure impressed on it are one.
The beginning of reform is not so much to equalize property as to train the noble sort of nature’s not to desire more, and to prevent the lower from getting more.
If liberty and equality, as is thought by some, are chiefly to be found in democracy, they will be best attained when all persons alike share in government to the utmost.
No notice is taken of a little evil, but when it increases it strikes the eye.
In poverty and other misfortunes of life, true friends are a sure refuge. The young they keep out of mischief; to the old they are a comfort and aid in their weakness, and those in the prime of life they incite to noble deeds.