“শিক্ষার উচিত তাকে উদ্যোক্তা বা চাকরি সৃষ্টিকারী হতে প্রস্তুত করা,চাকরি খুঁজতে নয়।...আমরা যদি তরুণদের চাকরি সৃষ্টিকারী হিসেবে গড়ে তুলতাম,তাহলে বেকারত্ব বলে কিছু থাকত না”
“যদি আমরা একটি কাঙ্ক্ষিত সমাজ কিংবা বিশ্বের কল্পনা করতে না পারি,তাহলে তা কখনোই সত্যি হবে না। সে জন্য আমাদের একটি গন্তব্য দরকার,একটি নির্দেশনা দরকার। তুমি যদি জানো যে তোমাকে কোথায় যেতে হবে,তাহলে তুমি অবশ্যই সেখানে পৌঁছাতে পারবে। তোমার প্রযুক্তি,যোগাযোগ ক্ষমতা তোমাকে সেখানে নিয়ে যাবে”
“বৈষম্য কমাতে শিক্ষা ব্যবস্থার ওপর জোর দিতে হবে। বর্তমান শিক্ষা ব্যবস্থা আমূল পরিবর্তন করতে হবে। আমাদের যে শিক্ষা ব্যবস্থা হচ্ছে সেটা মানুষকে চাকরির দিকে নিয়ে যায়। কিন্তু আমাদের উদ্যোক্তা তৈরি করতে হবে”
“প্রত্যেক মানুষই উদ্যোক্তা হয়ে জন্ম নেন। কিন্তু সমাজ তাকে এমনভাবে মগজধোলাই করে যে তিনি চাকরি খুঁজতে বাধ্য হন। সে জন্য বেকারত্ব দেখা দেয়”
“আমরা ভারত থেকে ডিম কিনি। যেদিন আমরা ভারতে ডিম বিক্রি করতে পারবো সেইদিন আমাদের অর্থনীতির চেহার পাল্টে যাবে”
“প্রতিটি মানুষই জন্মগতভাবে একজন উদ্যোক্তা”
“দারিদ্র্য,বেকারত্ব ও কার্বন নিঃসরণ শূন্যের পর্যায়ে থাকবে—এমন একটি বিশ্বের কথা কল্পনা করো। দেখবে একসময় তা সত্যিই হয়ে যাবে”
“ভালো একটি বিশ্ববিদ্যালয় থেকে ভালো ডিগ্রি নিয়ে বেরিয়েই একজন শিক্ষার্থী বলছেন,আমাকে চাকরি দিন। কিন্তু এটা বলছেন না যে আমাকে ১০ হাজার ডলার দিন,আমি নিজের ভাগ্য নিজেই গড়ে তুলব। তাঁর ভাগ্যের নিয়ন্ত্রণ তিনি তুলে দিচ্ছেন আরেকজনের হাতে। এটা আধুনিক দাসত্ব”
I began my work in the '70s, teaching at a university in Bangladesh, and these economic theories that I had learned stopped ringing true for me, as I saw the misery of people living all around me.
In my experience, poor people are the world's greatest entrepreneurs. Every day, they must innovate in order to survive. They remain poor because they do not have the opportunities to turn their creativity into sustainable income.
Today, if you look at financial systems around the globe, more than half the population of the world - out of six billion people, more than three billion - do not qualify to take out a loan from a bank. This is a shame. Muhammad Yunus
Engaging in social business is beneficial to a company because it leverages on business competencies to address social issues, involves one-time investment with sustainable results, and produces other positive effects such as employee motivation and improved organizational culture.
Making money is a happiness. And that's a great incentive. Making other people happy is a super-happiness. -Muhammad Yunus
To overcome poverty and the flaws of the economic crisis in our society, we need to envision our social life. We have to free our mind, imagine what has never happened before and write social fiction. We need to imagine things to make them happen. If you don't imagine, it will never happen.
Civilization has given us enormous successes: going to the moon, technology. But then this is the civilisation that took us to debt, environmental crisis, every single crisis. We need a civilization where we say goodbye to these things.
While technology is important, it's what we do with it that truly matters.
The developing world is full of entrepreneurs and visionaries, who with access to education, equity and credit would play a key role in developing the economic situations in their countries.
Poverty is the absence of all human rights. The frustrations, hostility and anger generated by abject poverty cannot sustain peace in any society.
We have a list of human rights - right to food, right to shelter, right to health, right to education, many such items which are considered and accepted as bill of rights. These are to be insured to people. So all nations, all societies try to do that.
My greatest challenge has been to change the mindset of people. Mindsets play strange tricks on us. We see things the way our minds have instructed our eyes to see.
Access to quality education has enabled me to reach far beyond the Bangladeshi village I grew up in. Muhammad Yunus
Today, the concept of business is to make money. Making money is the name of the business.
I began my career as an economics professor but became frustrated because the economic theories I taught in the classroom didn't have any meaning in the lives of poor people I saw all around me. I decided to turn away from the textbooks and discover the real-life economics of a poor person's existence.
There is the expression of selfishness and there is the expression of selflessness - but economists or theoreticians never touched that part. They said: 'Go and become a philanthropist.' I said, 'No, I can do that in the business world, create a different kind of business - a business based on selflessness.'
There are cultural issues everywhere - in Bangladesh, Latin America, Africa, wherever you go. But somehow when we talk about cultural differences, we magnify those differences.
All human beings are born entrepreneurs. Some get a chance to unleash that capacity. Some never got the chance, never knew that he or she has that capacity.
Human beings have enormous resilience.
Peace should be understood in a human way - in a broad social, political and economic way. Peace is threatened by unjust economic, social and political order, absence of democracy, environmental degradation and absence of human rights.
They explained to me that the bank cannot lend money to poor people because these people are not creditworthy.
If the basic structure of Grameen is changed, the worry is that the poor women who are the rightful owners of the bank will be disenfranchised.
Truly affordable but high-quality health care tools and services are the only means by which quality health care can be provided to all.
What we need is to think strategically about development, analyzing a country's potential role in its region and the world in search of opportunities for growth. Platforms like the Global Social Business Summit can facilitate the process on bringing about change.
I had no idea that I would ever get involved with something like lending money to poor people, given the circumstances in which I was working in Bangladesh.
We have designed a capitalist system wrong. We assume human beings are one-dimensional, all they do is make money, so we've created a money-centric world.
Here we were talking about economic development, about investing billions of dollars in various programs, and I could see it wasn't billions of dollars people needed right away.
Good economic theory must give the people the chance to use their talents to build their own lives. We must get away from the traditional route where the rich will do the business and the poor will depend on private or public charity.
I was teaching in one of the universities while the country was suffering from a severe famine. People were dying of hunger, and I felt very helpless. As an economist, I had no tool in my tool box to fix that kind of situation.
The new millennium began with a great global dream. World leaders gathered at the United Nations in 2000 and adopted, among others, a historic goal to reduce poverty by half by 2015. Never in human history had such a bold goal been adopted by the entire world in one voice, one that specified time and size.
I made a list of people who needed just a little bit of money. And when the list was complete, there were 42 names. The total amount of money they needed was $27. I was shocked.
I went to the bank and proposed that they lend money to the poor people. The bankers almost fell over. Muhammad Yunus
I wanted to give money to people like this woman so that they would be free from the moneylenders to sell their product at the price which the markets gave them - which was much higher than what the trader was giving them.
Soon we saw that money going to women brought much more benefit to the family than money going to the men. So we changed our policy and gave a high priority to women. As a result, now 96% of our four million borrowers in Grameen Bank are women.
Poverty is unnecessary.
Business money is limitless.
The moment you say microfinance everybody wants to help you.
What we are trying to do is to create a social business in Bangladesh, a joint venture to create restaurants for common people. Good, healthy food at affordable prices so that people don't have to opt for food that is unhealthy and unhygienic.
Microcredit has shown how you can reach out to people that conventional banking cannot. It has demonstrated that it's a doable proposition.
Capitalism has been interpreted as an exclusively profit-centric human engagement. Some have been saying to bring people and planet into the picture. This can be a good change, but it is still not fully operationalized. Are you putting people, planet and profit at the same level?
I said peace is sometimes narrowly interpreted; it's the absence of conflict between nations or something. But peace is more inherent, more basic to human life, human beings, what we feel about each other, what we feel about life around us and what we see in our future.
I dismiss personal profit and focus exclusively on people and planet. That's what I call social business: a nondividend company dedicated to solving human problems. You can go all the way, forgetting about personal profit, being single-minded about solving problems. The company makes profit, but profit stays with the company.
Money begets money. If you don't have that, you wait around to be hired by somebody at the mercy of others. If you have that money in your hand, you desperately try to make the best use of it and move ahead. And that's generating income for yourself.
All human beings are very creative - full of potential, full of energy... So, money kind of allows them to express it... And if you're successful, you can take more money. You can expand your capacity, reach next level of capacity, and so on.
The profit orientation is only one orientation of a person. The same people who are interested in profit-making are also selfless. I am not saying that capitalist theory is wrong. I am saying that it has not been interpreted and practiced fully.
I have always said that human beings are multidimensional beings. Their happiness comes from many sources, not, as our current economic framework assumes, just from making money.
I founded Grameen Bank to provide loans to those considered traditionally unbankable. Grameen Bank works with the poorest and often illiterate, providing uncollateralized micro-loans for tiny business enterprises by which they can lift themselves and their families out of poverty.
I was born in 1940 in Hathazari, Chittagong, which is now part of Bangladesh. Education was always important to my parents, and with what little we had, they were able to provide an education for their children.
The Grameen Bank Ordinance with amendments up to 2008 is a beautiful legal structure for the fulfillment of the ideals and objectives of the bank. Any change in this structure will be devastating for the bank. Muhammad Yunus
Long live Grameen Bank. Let the power of poor women prevail.
We developed microfinance to fight loan sharks - I was telling people don't go to loan sharks - not trying to take advantage and make money for myself. I would be a junior loan shark if I did... It is not a panacea. Muhammad Yunus
Nothing is more valuable to people than health care, and by paying, they feel less like beggars and more like 'customers' who can and should demand quality care.
Unprecedented technological capabilities combined with unlimited human creativity have given us tremendous power to take on intractable problems like poverty, unemployment, disease, and environmental degradation. Our challenge is to translate this extraordinary potential into meaningful change.
Health care can be made more affordable for the poor without requiring major new scientific developments, just the smart application of current technologies. We have seen a $25 incubator and diagnostic instruments that are built tough, cheap, and reusable for the developing world.
The Grameen clinics prove that a medical system 'for the poor' can be almost entirely self-supporting, and we hope we can make it fully self-sufficient so we can expand it across Bangladesh.
Grameen Bank was formed as an institution owned by its borrower members, who are poor women. Through its unique decision-making process, Grameen Bank has given millions of women the means to emerge from the shadows in a male-dominated society and to make something of themselves.
Business is a very beautiful mechanism to solve problems, but we never use it for that purpose. We only use it to make money. It satisfies our selfish interest but not our collective interest.
I believe terrorism cannot be won over by military action. Terrorism must be condemned in the strongest language. We must stand solidly against it, and find all the means to end it. We must address the root causes of terrorism to end it for all time to come.
Money commands everything because that's our interpretation of capitalism... what kind of world is that? It's a very uncomfortable interpretation of a human being. We have been turned into robots.